README.md, before:

# 12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning

Please cite the following if you use this code. Code and pre-trained models for [12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2020/html/Lu_12-in-1_Multi-Task_Vision_and_Language_Representation_Learning_CVPR_2020_paper.html):

```
@InProceedings{Lu_2020_CVPR,
author = {Lu, Jiasen and Goswami, Vedanuj and Rohrbach, Marcus and Parikh, Devi and Lee, Stefan},
title = {12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning},
booktitle = {The IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
month = {June},
year = {2020}
}
```

and [ViLBERT: Pretraining Task-Agnostic Visiolinguistic Representations for Vision-and-Language Tasks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02265):

```
@inproceedings{lu2019vilbert,
  title={Vilbert: Pretraining task-agnostic visiolinguistic representations for vision-and-language tasks},
  author={Lu, Jiasen and Batra, Dhruv and Parikh, Devi and Lee, Stefan},
  booktitle={Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
  pages={13--23},
  year={2019}
}
```

## Repository Setup

1. Create a fresh conda environment, and install all dependencies.

```text
conda create -n vilbert-mt python=3.6
conda activate vilbert-mt
git clone --recursive https://github.com/facebookresearch/vilbert-multi-task.git
cd vilbert-multi-task
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Install pytorch
```
conda install pytorch torchvision cudatoolkit=10.0 -c pytorch
```

3. Install apex, follows https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex

4. Install this codebase as a package in this environment.
```text
python setup.py develop
```

## Data Setup

Check `README.md` under `data` for more details.  

## Visiolinguistic Pre-training and Multi Task Training

### Pretraining on Conceptual Captions

```
python train_concap.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --train_batch_size 512 --objective 1 --file_path <path_to_extracted_cc_features>
```
[Download link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/vilbert-multi-task/pretrained_model.bin)

### Multi-task Training

```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained <pretrained_model_path> --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 1-2-4-7-8-9-10-11-12-13-15-17 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear' --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name multi_task_model
```

[Download link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/vilbert-multi-task/multi_task_model.bin)


### Fine-tune from Multi-task trained model

```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained <multi_task_model_path> --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 1 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear' --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model
```
 
## MediaEval Task

### Transfer Learning
In this part, the fine-tuned (VQA or NLVR2) model wights are being frozen. The ME training dataset (8,000 samples) is fed to the model and the visual and textual representations are written to `--rep_save_path` so they can be used later to train a regressor.

```
python script/ME/vilbert_representations.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/VQA_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_1/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split trainval --batch_size 128 --task_specific_tokens --rep_save_path datasets/ME/out_features/train_features.pkl
```

### Prepare (Deep) Caption
Preparing (deep) captions consists of loading video IDs and captions from the `.txt` or `.csv` file, add the ground truth (scores), tokenize, tensorize and save the cache file. Add `--dc` parameters if using deep captions. An example of using this script
```
python script/ME/captions_preparation.py --captions_path /MediaEval/alto_titles_danny.csv --gt_path /MediaEval/dev-set/ground-truth/ground-truth_dev-set.csv --split trainval --dc
```

### Extract Frames from Video
Use this script to extract frames from the video.
```
python script/ME/extract_frames.py --output_folder <output_folder> --video_dir <video_dir> --frames <frames>
```
Use the `frames` parameter for the number of frames to be extracted (default is 1 i.e., the middle frame of the video). The extracted frames are saved as `<output_folder>/<video-id>_<frame_count>.jpg` where `<frame_count>` in `[0..<frames>-1]` (and `<output_folder>/<video-id>.jpg` when extracting only one frame). Keep this structure since it is used by the `script/ME/average_features.py` or `script/extract_features.py` scripts.
Make sure to have writing permission for the `output_folder`. Otherwise, here is an example to use
```
sudo /home/<user>/miniconda3/envs/vilbert-mt/bin/python script/ME/extract_frames.py --output_folder /MediaEval/dev-set/source_output --video_dir /MediaEval/dev-set/sources --frames 1
```

### Extract Features for Multiple Frames
Use `script/extract_features.py` and add `samples` parameter for the number of frames to use.
```
python script/extract_features.py --model_file data/detectron_model.pth --config_file data/detectron_config.yaml --image_dir datasets/ME/images/train --output_folder datasets/ME/features_100/ME_trainval_resnext152_faster_rcnn_genome.lmdb/ --samples 5
```

### Average Visual Feature Vectors
If using multiple extracted frames from each video, this script is used to average already extracted features. Features files should be named `<video-id>_<feature_count>.npy` where `<feature_count>` in `[0..<feature_number>]`.
```
python script/ME/average_features.py --features_dir <path_to_directory_with_features> --output_folder <path_to_output_averaged_features>
```

### End-to-end Training
Training the Multi-task model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained models/multi_task_model.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-BASE --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```
Training the VQA fine-tuned model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/VQA_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_1/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-VQA --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```
Training the NLVR2 fine-tuned model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/NLVR2_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_12/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-NLVR2 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```

### End-to-end Evaluating
Evaluate the Multi-task model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-BASE/pytorch_model_12.bin
```
Evaluate the VQA fine-tuned model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-VQA/pytorch_model_14.bin
```
Evaluate the NLVR2 fine-tuned model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-NLVR2/pytorch_model_11.bin
```

## License

vilbert-multi-task is licensed under MIT license available in [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

add regressor training notebooks and update readme

README.md, after:

# 12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning

Please cite the following if you use this code. Code and pre-trained models for [12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2020/html/Lu_12-in-1_Multi-Task_Vision_and_Language_Representation_Learning_CVPR_2020_paper.html):

```
@InProceedings{Lu_2020_CVPR,
author = {Lu, Jiasen and Goswami, Vedanuj and Rohrbach, Marcus and Parikh, Devi and Lee, Stefan},
title = {12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning},
booktitle = {The IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
month = {June},
year = {2020}
}
```

and [ViLBERT: Pretraining Task-Agnostic Visiolinguistic Representations for Vision-and-Language Tasks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02265):

```
@inproceedings{lu2019vilbert,
  title={Vilbert: Pretraining task-agnostic visiolinguistic representations for vision-and-language tasks},
  author={Lu, Jiasen and Batra, Dhruv and Parikh, Devi and Lee, Stefan},
  booktitle={Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
  pages={13--23},
  year={2019}
}
```

## Repository Setup

1. Create a fresh conda environment, and install all dependencies.

```text
conda create -n vilbert-mt python=3.6
conda activate vilbert-mt
git clone --recursive https://github.com/facebookresearch/vilbert-multi-task.git
cd vilbert-multi-task
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Install pytorch
```
conda install pytorch torchvision cudatoolkit=10.0 -c pytorch
```

3. Install apex, follows https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex

4. Install this codebase as a package in this environment.
```text
python setup.py develop
```

## Data Setup

Check `README.md` under `data` for more details.  

## Visiolinguistic Pre-training and Multi Task Training

### Pretraining on Conceptual Captions

```
python train_concap.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --train_batch_size 512 --objective 1 --file_path <path_to_extracted_cc_features>
```
[Download link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/vilbert-multi-task/pretrained_model.bin)

### Multi-task Training

```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained <pretrained_model_path> --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 1-2-4-7-8-9-10-11-12-13-15-17 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear' --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name multi_task_model
```

[Download link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/vilbert-multi-task/multi_task_model.bin)


### Fine-tune from Multi-task trained model

```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained <multi_task_model_path> --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 1 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear' --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model
```
 
## MediaEval Task

### Transfer Learning
In this part, the fine-tuned (VQA or NLVR2) model wights are being frozen. The ME training dataset (8,000 samples) is fed to the model and the visual and textual representations are written to `--rep_save_path` so they can be used later to train a regressor.

```
python script/ME/vilbert_representations.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/VQA_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_1/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split trainval --batch_size 128 --task_specific_tokens --rep_save_path datasets/ME/out_features/train_features.pkl
```

### Training the Regressor Separately
This part was fully made in both `ME_train_reg_test-set.ipynb` and `ME_train_reg_folds.ipynb` notebooks. The only difference is the evaluation process. i.e., for the first training was performed on the whole dev-set and the evaluation on test-set. While for the second, 4 splits were used as explaned in the report.

### Prepare (Deep) Caption
Preparing (deep) captions consists of loading video IDs and captions from the `.txt` or `.csv` file, add the ground truth (scores), tokenize, tensorize and save the cache file. Add `--dc` parameters if using deep captions. An example of using this script
```
python script/ME/captions_preparation.py --captions_path /MediaEval/alto_titles_danny.csv --gt_path /MediaEval/dev-set/ground-truth/ground-truth_dev-set.csv --split trainval --dc
```

### Extract Frames from Video
Use this script to extract frames from the video.
```
python script/ME/extract_frames.py --output_folder <output_folder> --video_dir <video_dir> --frames <frames>
```
Use the `frames` parameter for the number of frames to be extracted (default is 1 i.e., the middle frame of the video). The extracted frames are saved as `<output_folder>/<video-id>_<frame_count>.jpg` where `<frame_count>` in `[0..<frames>-1]` (and `<output_folder>/<video-id>.jpg` when extracting only one frame). Keep this structure since it is used by the `script/ME/average_features.py` or `script/extract_features.py` scripts.
Make sure to have writing permission for the `output_folder`. Otherwise, here is an example to use
```
sudo /home/<user>/miniconda3/envs/vilbert-mt/bin/python script/ME/extract_frames.py --output_folder /MediaEval/dev-set/source_output --video_dir /MediaEval/dev-set/sources --frames 1
```

### Extract Features for Multiple Frames
Use `script/extract_features.py` and add `samples` parameter for the number of frames to use.
```
python script/extract_features.py --model_file data/detectron_model.pth --config_file data/detectron_config.yaml --image_dir datasets/ME/images/train --output_folder datasets/ME/features_100/ME_trainval_resnext152_faster_rcnn_genome.lmdb/ --samples 5
```

### Average Visual Feature Vectors
If using multiple extracted frames from each video, this script is used to average already extracted features. Features files should be named `<video-id>_<feature_count>.npy` where `<feature_count>` in `[0..<feature_number>]`.
```
python script/ME/average_features.py --features_dir <path_to_directory_with_features> --output_folder <path_to_output_averaged_features>
```



### End-to-end Training
Training the Multi-task model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained models/multi_task_model.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-BASE --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```
Training the VQA fine-tuned model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/VQA_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_1/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-VQA --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```
Training the NLVR2 fine-tuned model for ME
```
python train_tasks.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --from_pretrained save/NLVR2_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_12/pytorch_model_19.bin --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --train_iter_gap 4 --task_specific_tokens --save_name finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-NLVR2 --lr_scheduler 'warmup_linear'
```

### End-to-end Evaluating
Evaluate the Multi-task model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-BASE/pytorch_model_12.bin
```
Evaluate the VQA fine-tuned model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-VQA/pytorch_model_14.bin
```
Evaluate the NLVR2 fine-tuned model previously trained for ME
```
python script/ME/eval_ME.py --bert_model bert-base-uncased --config_file config/bert_base_6layer_6conect.json --tasks 19 --split test --task_specific_tokens --batch_size 128 --from_pretrained save/ME_bert_base_6layer_6conect-finetune_from_multi_task_model-task_19-all_train-NLVR2/pytorch_model_11.bin
```

## License

vilbert-multi-task is licensed under MIT license available in [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
